The Children’s Court is not precluded from deciding on adoption, irrespective of whether or not the Department of Social Development issues a letter of recommendation regarding prospective parents’ suitability to adopt children. This is according to a judgment by the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria. The matter related to two sets of prospective parents who approached the court after the department, for no reason, said it did not recommend the adoptions of the children in their cases. The desperate applicants in both cases said they had already formed a bond with the children, who were in desperate need of loving homes. Judge Natvarlal Ranchod found that even if the department did not submit a letter of recommendation, it did not oust the Children’s Courts from considering and adjudicating on adoption matters. Although Social Development at first opposed the applications, it later abandoned its opposition. The Centre for Child Law, which assisted the applicants, however, asked the court to nevertheless rule on this important issue, which would pave the way forward in these types of cases. The centre said a judgment on this was important, as several Children’s Courts in the various magisterial districts interpreted the Children’s Act pertaining to adoptions, differently. The first application is regarding a boy only identified as L, who was born in 2017. The biological mother, who said she did not know who the father was, did not want him and a social worker was called in to assist. The mother signed the consent form that the child may be adopted. The social worker issued a statement with the Children’s Court that all was in order, and that she had approved the adoptive parents. The department, out of the blue, said it did not approve of the adoption, but the judge said he was still not sure what the real reason for this was. The department simply said the biological mother was a Lesotho national, thus the child was a citizen of that country. Judge Ranchod said it was not clear what this had to do with the issue of adoption. The department said the biological mother’s family also had to be consulted before the child could be adopted. The second application was similar and pertained to a boy, now 2 years old, whose mother did not want him. He had been in the care of his adoptive parents since he was 8 months old and knows them as his only parents. A social worker filed her recommendations with the Tembisa Children’s Court. But yet again, the department said it did not recommend the adoption as the biological mother was from Mozambique, and thus regarded it as an inter-country adoption. This left these courts in the dark as to what they are entitled to do under these circumstances. Judge Ranchod said the Children’s Act, among others, stated that any child may be adopted if the child was adoptable and the adoption was in the best interest of the child. The judge said even if the Children’s Court was in possession of a letter from the department not recommending the particular adoption, the magistrate will still be able to consider it. “If this were not so, it would lead to the absurd conclusion that a Children’s Court is bound by a decision of the first respondent (the department).” The judge said this would interfere with the separation of powers. He added that this could also lead to the violation of the rights of the children, who are entitled to a happy family environment. He made it clear that the rights of the child always came first. Zita Hansungule of the Centre for Child Law said the judgment gave clarity on what the powers the Children's Courts had when considering whether to grant an adoption order or not, where the department had issued a letter not recommending the adoption. “The judgment clarifies that a Children’s Court, an independent judicial entity, then must consider everything it has before it in light of the best interests of the child and determine whether to grant an adoption order or not. A Children’s Court is not bound by the contents of a letter from the department. “This ensures that children who are ultimately eligible for adoption are placed in family environments as opposed to being in institutional care. The judgment also ensures that there are no unreasonable delays in the finalisation of adoptions when the department letters are not provided or when letters do not recommend adoptions. “Ultimately, the judgment affirms the fact that the Children’s Court is best placed to be the final arbiter on what is in the best interests of children who are the subject of adoption applications,” Hansungule said. Pretoria News