Police said they had arrested 17 more people following a bust up at the ANC branch general meeting in Limpopo at the weekend. ANC member Kemotho Daniel Nkanyane was arrested after the incident in which two people were shot and 16 others injured. Several cars were damaged. A firearm was also recovered. Nkanyane has since appeared before the Phalala Magistrate’s Court. Police spokesperson Brigadier Molafela Mojapelo said: “We arrested 17 suspects aged between 20 and 40 following incidents of shootings, assaults and malicious damage to property that took place at GaSeleka on Saturday. The suspects will appear in Phalala Magistrate court soon. More arrests are expected.” In a statement on Wednesday night, ANC Waterberg region spokesperson Matome Moremi-Taueatsoala said: “The ANC in Waterberg welcomes the arrests of 17 suspects and thanks the SAPS for effecting these arrests timeously, as this will go a long way in restoring the public’s confidence in the country’s justice system. “The ANC understands that the SAPS assembled a high level team of detectives who were able to identify these delinquents, track them down and effected their arrests. This will also send a strong message that South Africa is a country that is governed by the rule of law, and anyone who purposefully transgresses the law, will have to face its full might. “ANC gatherings cannot become playing fields for lawbreakers who are driven by rage and wanton disregard of organisational protocols. It is unimaginable that women could be ‘brazenly attacked’ like this, in an ANC gathering. “The ANC in Waterberg will follow this criminal case with keen interest, and institute internal disciplinary processes against these perpetrators – where possible harshest sanctions will be meted out,” the statement read. Mojapelo also confirmed the arrest of Nkanyane, the alleged shooter. “We can confirm that cases of two counts of attempted murder, assault, grievous bodily harm, malicious damage to property and public violence have been opened by the police at Witpoort police station in the Waterberg District.” The two people who had been shot had been taken to hospital. President Cyril Ramaphosa has condemned the incident, saying all members of the party should hang their head in shame after the incident. There has been widespread violence within ANC branch general meetings ahead of the October local municipal elections recently. Nine people were arrested on Sunday for being in unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition on their way to attend a Mid-Illovo ANC BGM in Durban.