The youth of Ga-Rankuwa gathered outside Dr George Mukhari Academic Hospital to thank healthcare workers for continuing to risk their lives to save others throughout the pandemic. The youngsters, mostly from the nearby Zone 1, arrived before 6.30am while doctors, nurses, administration officers, security officers, drivers and all other general workers were reporting for duty. They held placards, lit candles and sang Struggle songs, but with adapted messages to thank the front line workers. They said they wanted the men and women at the Covid-19 battle front at the hospital to know that while it was their job, their efforts of bravery did not go unnoticed. Project leader Ramasodi Sekgothe said the youth understood the crucial job the front line workers did. He said: “Just seeing their reaction and humility when we lined up outside the main entrance to say thank you, really touched us because sometimes we think of them as healthcare professionals that we forget these people are our neighbours and parents. “We wanted to also let them know that we will not forget those among them who lost their lives in this struggle against Covid-19 and we, as the youth, would do our part to ensure that we help in the fight against this pandemic. “That is why we are calling on the youth to abstain from large gatherings and super-spreader events, and continue to observe Covid-19 safety protocols so that we do not contribute to the pandemic by sending more ill people to this hospital. They should also play a part in reducing the number of people who need to come here.” Resident Elizabeth Phasha said it was a beautiful sight to see young people who are often criticised for attending super-spreader events and engaging in reckless behaviour,  come together to prove that most of them do take the pandemic seriously. “These are our young people and I am more than impressed and beyond humbled by their efforts. I thank them for this and they have demonstrated that we have great leaders of tomorrow right here in Ga-Rankuwa,” she said. 