WORKERS from the Itireleng Centre for the Blind in Ga-Rankuwa have vowed to continue their sit-in at the Department of Social Development until they have been paid. The workers, who began their sit-in at the departmental offices along Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius streets in the Pretoria CBD on Tuesday morning, said they would not leave until their issues had been resolved. One of the workers is Charles Rabothata, who said their problems started shortly after the commencement of the hard lockdown in April 2020, where workers stopped receiving their monthly stipends. Rabothata said even though workers returned to work officially in August as the lockdown levels were eased, they were yet to receive their stipend of R1 500, with the department giving them the runaround as to how or who was to help them get paid. If anything, he said, they were informed that although the funds from the department were available, they would not get a cent of the money until a new centre manager, along with new board members, was elected first. And even though that had been resolved, they were then informed the funds could not be released until a report from the interim board was furnished to the department. “We are yet to receive our money or the budget for the centre for 2020 and 2021, so we don’t know anything at this point, and this is why we opted to bring ourselves to find out what exactly is going on here. “From Tuesday we haven’t bathed or had anything decent to eat, and yet every time they promise to come and bring someone to speak to us, either from the province or national, they do a u-turn and call the police to arrest us for trespassing.” Rabothata said what made it more painful for workers was they had also been informed their work stipend would be cut from R1 500 to R434, something he said workers would not settle for. The Itireleng workshop in Ga-Rankuwa Zone 2 is where the blind and disabled workers ply their trade by making cane furniture, cushions and wire fencing, among other things. “Whenever we try to speak up we’re told we should be satisfied as we also receive a disability grant, but I have children that I need to send to school, provide food for and other basic needs,” Rabothata said. Department officials were reportedly in meetings all day yesterday and thus were unable to comment. Pretoria News