WHILE singing has always been a big part of Muzi Madlala’s life, it manifested itself after he relocated to Joburg to study at Wits University. “I heard people singing as I was passing by a community Hall in Orlando East. My curiosity and love for music propelled me to go in and check what was happening,” he said. “It turned out to be The Johannesburg Adult Choir. I joined them on the spot. Coming from rural areas it was not easy adjusting to life in the City of Gold. However, through the choir I found peace, comfort and a place to stay.” The 44-year-old God-fearing husband and father of two was born in Port Shepstone on the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast. He has since settled in Pretoria. “I am the third-born of five children. I would say we are all vocally talented at home. But I’m not sure where we got this, because both our parents can’t sing. “I did my high school learning at Adams College, formerly known as Amanzimtoti College. This is where I accepted Jesus Christ as my Lord and personal saviour, in 1993. “Since then God has been faithful to me. Together with a friend of mine, we started a school choir that sang during assembly at school.” In recent years, he said, he started dreaming melodies. “Initially I ignored this, but in 2018 I decided to record the melodies on my cellphone and with the help of the Holy Spirit words would just come. “I have over 50 songs inspired by the word of God that I have written. What excites me most about this is that my heart goes out for the weak and needy people. In my spiritual journey I witnessed how God would use me to turn people’s lives that were otherwise down and out. “God also uses me in marriage counselling. I saw God restoring one marriage which was as good as gone. The husband had already secured his place to stay, leaving the wife and two little children; divorce papers were ready to be signed. “I have witnessed how God drove into my life a man who was in jail for 11 years, came out and found life very tough. Through God’s divine plan we met, he shared his story and I took that journey with him. Today, he is fully restored and recently got married.” Madlala said because his voice is deep he didn’t think that he would be able to record and publish his music. However, that changed when he met Mthetho Mbatha, now his producer from Soulid Entertainment, who gave him courage to believe in himself and his unique vocal abilities. He has since released his debut album, Simdumise, which has been well received by gospel lovers and music fans alike.