Pretoria - From the dusty village of Pankop Masubye in Mpumalanga to being crowned as the winner of Redbull 3Style international award in 2017 has always been something that a Pretoria-based DJ Mpho Mokwena dreamt about. Mokwena, known by the stage name DJ Mposession, describes himself as a versatile DJ who plays all the music genres such as house, jazz, amapiano and kwaito. He spoke to the Pretoria News about the story of his career in music since he started in 2010 while still at secondary school. The 29-year-old musician recalled that he started playing during his high school days with his childhood friend Kgaogelo Maluleka. At the time the pair earned themselves the name "master's of rhythm" because of the entertaining sounds that came out when they were playing together. The two eventually went separate ways, with Maluleka keen to start a solo career and Mokwena continued to also pursue his DJing dreams. Mokwena said he never let go of the name "master's of rhythm"; he used it to establish a clothing brand and also grooming upcoming DJs under a company he founded. "I have always loved music at an early age and also loved dressing differently," he said. His unusual dress sense during his upbringing, also motivated him to follow his passion as a clothing designer. "I remember that I would buy clothes and redesign them just so I could look different from the rest of guys who bought the same clothes as myself," Mokwena said. He believes that working hard and humility has assisted him to receive the recognition as a DJ, also opening doors for him to play in many clubs around the capital city. Among the accolades he has so far amassed as a musician, include a prize for being the Face of Gemini and a Red Square DJ knockout judge in 2017 and 2018. He scooped the prize for Tshwane DJ of the year in 2018, which opened the doors to work at Tshwane FM as a radio DJ and presenter. He expressed his gratitude to his business partner Boitumelo Mauwane, who is also the mother of his son. "The two of us are working together in a company known as FH2A (From Heart 2 Art). It is also a clothing brand, catering and décor for small events established in 2018," he said. Pretoria News