Prince Harry and Duchess Meghan are expecting a baby girl. The couple are currently expecting their second child together, and during their tell-all interview with Oprah Winfrey – which aired on Sunday – they revealed their unborn baby will be a girl. Harry said: “It’s a girl.” The 36-year-old royal – who already has 22-month-old son Archie with Meghan – said having both a boy and a girl is “amazing”, and insisted their family will be complete once their daughter is born.   He added: “It’s amazing. I’m just so grateful. To have any child, any one or any two would be amazing, but to have a boy and then a girl, what more can you ask for? Now we’ve got our family. We’ve got the four of us and our two dogs, and it’s great.” The couple also confirmed they aren’t planning on having any other children after their second child is born. When asked if they’re stopping at two children, Harry said: “Done.” And Meghan, 39, added: “Two is it.” The former actress then revealed their baby is due “this summertime”. Harry and Meghan announced their pregnancy on Valentine’s Day with a statement from their spokesperson. The statement read: "We can confirm that Archie is going to be a big brother. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are overjoyed to be expecting their second child." Meanwhile, Meghan opened up in November about suffering a miscarriage when pregnant after Archie was born. The actress candidly recalled how she experienced a "sharp cramp" while changing her little boy's nappy in July and knew straight away. She wrote at the time: "After changing his diaper, I felt a sharp cramp. I dropped to the floor with him in my arms, humming a lullaby to keep us both calm, the cheerful tune a stark contrast to my sense that something was not right. I knew, as I clutched my firstborn child, that I was losing my second." Meghan was then taken to hospital and described how both she and her husband were in tears as they came to terms with their devastating loss. She added: "Hours later, I lay in a hospital bed, holding his hand. I felt the clamminess of his palm and kissed his knuckles, wet from both our tears. Staring at the cold white walls, my eyes glazed over. I tried to imagine how we’d heal." 