A LATE night dash to a hospital pharmacy to get milk for his newborn baby has led to a dad being arrested for breaking curfew and a traumatised mother. The couple have briefed lawyer Lily Rautenbach - and asked for space while they recover from their ordeal. According to Centurion ward councillor Leon Kruyshaar - who posted the story on the Concerned Citizens Facebook group - the woman ended up walking alone to the Wierdabrug police station so she could fetch the milk and the car keys from her husband. He described how the father went to Unitas at around 1.30am last Friday to get milk from the Clicks pharmacy there for two-day old baby Ariana. He was stopped about half a km from home and told to get out of his car, accused by the police of breaking curfew and not wearing a mask. He arrested and taken to Wierdabrug police station, despite explaining why he had been out and showing the slip for his purchase. He was allegedly then told he could call his wife to walk in the dark to the police station so she could fetch the milk and keys, despite the fact she was home with a newborn. He later released the next morning charged with having contravened lockdown regulations. “This is just pathetic. Where is the empathy in all of this? This was a medical emergency and required special attention,” Rautenbach said. Calls on social media for the policemen involved to be investigated were growing. Yesterday, Kruyshaar said the Wierdabrug police confirmed the matter was receiving attention and a case would be opened against the police officers involved. “We will be taking the police officers implicated to court and will deal with the matter urgently,” Rautenbach said.Late-night dash for milk gets new dad arrested A LATE-night dash to a hospital pharmacy to get milk for his newborn baby led to a dad being arrested for breaking curfew and a traumatised mother. The couple have briefed lawyer Lily Rautenbach - and asked for space while they recover from their ordeal. According to Centurion ward councillor Leon Kruyshaar - who posted the story on the Concerned Citizens Facebook group - the woman ended up walking alone to the Wierdabrug police station so she could fetch the milk and the car keys from her husband. He described how the father went to Unitas at around 1.30am last Friday to get milk from the Clicks pharmacy there for two-day old baby Ariana. He was stopped about half a km from home and told to get out of his car, accused by the police of breaking curfew and not wearing a mask. He arrested and taken to Wierdabrug police station, despite explaining why he had been out and showing the slip for his purchase. He was allegedly then told he could call his wife to walk in the dark to the police station so she could fetch the milk and keys, despite the fact she was home with a newborn. He later released the next morning charged with having contravened lockdown regulations. “This is just pathetic. Where is the empathy in all of this? This was a medical emergency and required special attention,” Rautenbach said. Calls on social media for the policemen involved to be investigated were growing. Yesterday, Kruyshaar said the Wierdabrug police confirmed the matter was receiving attention and a case would be opened against the police officers involved. “We will be taking the police officers implicated to court and will deal with the matter urgently,” Rautenbach said. 