TIMES are tough for elderly people in old age homes. They are lonely because their loved ones cannot visit due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, residents of the University of Pretoria’s Azalea Residence have embarked on an adopt-a-grandparent project to bring some cheer to the elderly. The students adopted 70  grandparents from the Ons Tuis old age home, and St John’s Home for the Aged. Michelle Kretzschmar, 20, a resident at Azalea Residence who was recently elected as a house committee member, said this project was perfect for the students. "Although most of us are blessed to have, or have had, grandparents, I have learned that children and students are sometimes scared to engage with older people. Taking an interest in them truly opened up our eyes. “Through the 'Adopt a Grandparent' programme, we now have the opportunity to get to know them and learn from their utterly amazing and interesting experiences," Kretzschmar said. She handed out approximately 40 letters written by Azalea-girls at Ons Tuis in Riviera. More letters were delivered to this old age home’s other branches, including Danville, last week. A bunch of letters have meanwhile, also been delivered to the elderly at St John’s. “We wrote in total 80 letters to 70 grandparents from St John’s. But due to Covid-19 and the very old age of these people - from 80 to 105 - we did not drop it off personally. Instead we met their driver, who said the elderly were excitedly awaiting the handwritten letters.” The students are hopeful that everyone will later have the opportunity to engage with their newly-adopted grandparent personally. "The hand-out of the letters was such a special and humble experience. One lady could not resist the suspense and immediately opened and read hers. "I am really passionate about this programme and assume this will be an ongoing project for our hostel. I can't wait for our next engagement," Kretzschmar said. She is encouraging  the public — anyone who can open their hearts to the elderly — to get involved in the programme. It entails visiting a retirement village in your area and choosing someone who might share an interest with you and then engage with them. This can be by communicating via text messages, emails or written letters, financial support or a pamper-hamper of your choice. The whole process is carefully planned, controlled and safe, according to Kretzschmar. “It did not take much getting our students on-board for this rewardingly, kind project. Our first mission was to write our new grandparent a letter. Every single one of them was unique in its own special way.” The ladies had put in a lot of effort and truly wrote from the heart. Most of them started by saying ’Hi’ and introducing themselves - who they are, what they are studying and what they love doing. “Now we are excitedly awaiting feedback, and getting to know more about our adopted grandparents, who we can learn a lot from,” she said. Pretoria News