Pretoria - Former Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu yesterday placed all the blame for the Life Esidimeni tragedy, in which at least 144 mentally ill patients died, on Premier David Makhura. In her opening speech on the first day of the inquest, and armed with one of the country’s top advocates, Lawrence Hodes SC, Mahlangu told Judge Mnomoa Teffo she was not personally responsible for the transfer of the patients. “She acted on advice from medical experts of the Gauteng Health Department… The ultimate decision to transfer the mentally ill patients was taken by Gauteng Premier David Makhura,” Hodes said. Meanwhile, former mental healthcare director Dr Makgabo Manamela, as well as the then Gauteng health head Dr Barney Selebano, are being represented by counsel in the inquest. Counsel acting for Gauteng Health Department, in his opening speech, said the government would ensure that all relevant officials involved gave evidence to shed light on how the patients had died. He said this was a fact-finding mission to see whether anyone could be held responsible for the deaths, and the premier would assist so that the truth was told. Cassie Chambers of the South African Depression and Anxiety Group (Sadag) was the first witness to be called in to give testimony at the marathon inquest, which kicked off in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, via virtual proceedings. When all has been said and done, the judge will have to decide whether anyone’s actions can be linked to the death of the 144 patients in 2016. Chambers said most of the facilities to which the patients were moved to were not able to handle them. She testified that they went hungry, some had to share medication and they did not have adequate clothing. In some cases the NGOs did not even have a record of who the patients placed with them were. Chambers said Sadag was, from the first time that they had heard about the relocation, worried and tried in vain to negotiate with the Gauteng Department of Health about the situation. They wanted to work together with the provincial government to find a solution, but they were barred from interfering or speaking to the media about the relocation, she said. At first Manamela had said the mentally ill patients would receive good care at the NGOs to which they were being moved. As the organisation’s concerns grew and family members were concerned about the relocation of their loved ones, Selebano warned it should not question the transfer of the patients. The organisation was so worried that it approached the court to have a curator appointed to manage the situation on behalf of the patients. The department opposed this and instead agreed to consult with the organisation before relocating the patients. This undertaking was never honoured, Chambers said. The decision to terminate the contract with Life Esidimeni was taken in September 2015. Between October that year and April 2016 about 16 patients a month were transferred from Life Esidimeni to NGOs. Advocate Adila Hassim SC, on behalf of the families, at length quoted the findings made by retired deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke during arbitration proceedings. Among other things, he had said: “This is a harrowing account of the death, torture and disappearance of utterly vulnerable mental healthcare users in the care of an admittedly delinquent provincial government.” Hassim highlighted the key findings Justice Moseneke had made, which included that the deaths that occurred were “not natural but caused unlawfully and negligently by the employees of the government”. Three key role players were identified by Justice Moseneke – Mahlangu, Selebano and Manamela. Justice Moseneke at the time said these responsible officials were warned of the consequences of the transfer of mental healthcare users but did not heed the many warnings. He said the NGOs were incapable of providing the necessary care for these patients and the officials knew this. Hassim said the court should take Justice Moseneke’s findings into account, but in the end the NPA had to decide who is accountable. The matter is proceeding. Pretoria News